.TH PSS 1 "June 2026" "PSS" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
pss \- Plausible Secret Sharing (Shamir ITS + transposed carriers)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pss
.I COMMAND
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pss
implements Shamir k-of-n secret sharing over GF(256) with read-only
transposition into untouched carrier files. Fewer than
.I k
carriers reveal no information about the secret (information-theoretic).
.PP
SHA-256 is used for public catalog identity and offset derivation only;
security against share leakage is Shamir ITS, not hash hardness.
.PP
Path arguments may be
.B -
for stdin or stdout where supported.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B setup
Select
.I n
untouched files from
.BR --corpus
matching Shamir shares; write exactly
.I n
files to
.BR --output .
.TP
.B decode
Reconstruct seed from share indices in
.BR --pool .
Default mode is sum (Shamir/Lagrange on seed shares). Combo mode requires
.BR \-\-path-k
path share indices to reconstruct ITS path recipe W, then chain-Lagrange decode.
Optional
.BR \-\-seed-k
in combo mode cross-checks combo seed against sum decode.
.TP
.B combo-demo
Run synthetic ITS path + sum chain roundtrip self-test.
.TP
.B verify
Check k+1 Shamir consistency (anti false-positive).
.TP
.B capacity
Report |F*|_max = L_{n-k+1} and pool utilization.
.TP
.BI \-\-select-top " N"
Consider only the N largest files in the pool before selecting n (N >= n).
.TP
.B extract
Deterministic transposed read walk (extract mode).
.TP
.B info
Print carrier indices, sizes, catalog IDs (no writes).
.TP
.B tier-setup, tier-decode, tier-demo
Fractal hierarchical Lagrange demo (compartmentation only).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-corpus " DIR"
Corpus directory for setup.
.TP
.BI \-\-output " DIR"
Output directory for setup (exactly n files).
.TP
.BI \-\-pool " DIR"
Carrier pool directory.
.TP
.BI \-\-k " K"
Shamir threshold (legacy alias for seed indices on decode).
.TP
.BI \-\-n " N"
Total share count.
.TP
.BI \-\-min-size " BYTES"
Minimum carrier size filter for setup.
.TP
.BI \-\-file " PATH"
Secret file for setup (default stdin).
.TP
.BI \-\-mode " sum|combo"
Decode mode (default sum).
.TP
.BI \-\-seed-k " IDX..."
Seed share indices for sum decode, or optional verify in combo mode.
.TP
.BI \-\-path-k " IDX..."
Path share indices for combo mode (ITS recipe W).
.TP
.BI \-\-path-len " N"
Path recipe byte length for combo decode (default 5).
.TP
.BI \-\-seed-len " N"
Seed byte length to reconstruct (default 32).
.TP
.BI \-\-payload " FILE"
OTP ciphertext file to decrypt after seed recovery (\fB-\fR for stdin/stdout).
.TP
.BI \-\-payload-len " N"
Truncate decrypted payload to N bytes (must be <= ciphertext length).
.TP
.BI \-\-max-bytes " N"
Max bytes for extract (default 32).
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
pss capacity --pool ./carriers --k 3 --n 5
.TP
pss decode --pool ./carriers 1 2 3
.TP
pss decode --pool ./carriers 1 2 3 --payload cipher.bin
.TP
pss decode --pool ./carriers 1 2 3 --payload cipher.bin --payload-len 32
.TP
pss decode --pool ./carriers --mode combo --path-k 1 2 --path-len 5 --seed-k 1 2 1 2 3
.TP
pss combo-demo
.TP
pss setup --corpus ./pool --output ./out --k 3 --n 5 --file seed.bin
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR PSS_SECURITY_LAYERS.md ,
.BR PSS_manual.md
.SH AUTHOR
0x1F980 (GPL-3.0-only)
